Whenever you go for insurance,
you are asked to do many types of insurance.
What is first party, second party, third party? I have already
made a video on that, you can watch it.
But when you go for insurance,
you must have heard that OD means on
damage only. So, I will clarify who does on damage.
Apart from this,
I will clarify for you what zero depth is
and what is comprehensive.
I will explain the difference between these three things so that you will be
clear about everything. So
first of all, OD means on
damage. Now, what does on damage mean
because many people
go for insurance, for example, if someone goes to insure a bike, then
only OD is shown to him. Let
me explain why it shows. So,
OD means that you will have insurance only
on damage, that is, only your vehicle.
Your third party is
already there. Meaning, when you
buy a bike, you
get third party insurance for 5 years. So,
you do not have to pay the third party money for 5 years. So,
whenever you get insurance,  It will be in OD,
meaning it is very less, like
normally the insurance of a bike is not more than 250, 300, 400, it is 400,
450, 500,
mostly, meaning for most of the companies,
your bike insurance will be for the next 5
years if you have a bike,
similarly, a car which is a private vehicle
comes with 3 years insurance, okay, now
when you
buy a new one, it has to be automatically for 3 years,
this is the rule, now till the next 9 years,
your first year will be OD,
meaning they will do it, for the next 2 years,
you only have to get OD done, there is
no need to get the rest of the insurance done, many
people do it by mistake, if they do it now, then
they waste money
and there is no point, meaning if
you have taken insurance for the same vehicle twice, then there is
no need to buy third party insurance again, for 5 years in a bike and for
3 years in a car, in a private car, for 1 year in a commercial  If the
same comes then you have to do third party again next year.
Okay, so you understood OD. The
meaning of OD is that you will get OD only
when you already have
insurance for your vehicle. So,
until its time does not expire,
bike's in 5 years and private's
in 3 years, then you will do OD and that is a very
less amount. Now comes comprehensive.
Comprehensive means that
in comprehensive your vehicle is covered
and third party is also included in it.
Normally if you do comprehensive then
both third party and yours are included in it, which means your vehicle is also
covered and the third party which I
told you in the beginning is
also included in it. In comprehensive,
if you assume that ever a
claim comes then assume it to be around 70 to 80, I am
taking it on average, I am not saying it is fixed,
but assume that you would have got a claim on 70 to 80
Suppose something breaks, then
in all of them, like there is something different in glass, there is
some percentage different in fiber, so that is
why I am telling the average,
you can assume that if you
take comprehensive
insurance, then you will get the claim of the car at 70 to 80
and the
quote that decides in the third party is that
suppose someone has an accident with your car
and there is some loss,
suppose someone dies,
or if someone suffers a huge
loss, then the court will be there because a case is bound to happen, if there is a
case, then the court
will decide how much money they have to pay, so
you do not have to pay that because you
have insurance, then your
insurance company, which is
called the second party, the insurance part, which
is the company, is automatically the second party,
in any insurance, that insurance
company will give the money to it, okay, so it happens in this way,
but if the wheel of your car is
comprehensive, then the
same insurance company will pay for the loss of your car as well, that means it will pay to
him as well, it will pay to you as well, so approximately your
70, now it is all
comprehensive, I hope you have understood everything, if there is any
confusion then
tell me by commenting below, I will explain, now let us come to the
third, zero depth,
what happens in zero depth is that you get bumper to
bumper insurance, that is, from the beginning till the
end, you can say it is called
bumper to bumper insurance, so
what happens in depth is that you only have to pay the
file charge and some other
charges, but they are so less
that you cannot count them, they are very less,
suppose your car meets with an
accident, then almost all the money is
paid by the insurance company, you only have to pay the
file charges and some other charges,
but they are negligible,
you cannot count them, okay, so
this is what happens, if you take zero depth then
you get the benefit, so
these are three types, one is third party,
one is OD, one is comprehensive,
one is OD and third party
insurance, if you want to know  So third
party insurance is such that your vehicle is not covered,
normally third party
insurance is for someone else's loss, that means
if your vehicle causes loss to someone else,
it is called third party insurance, so the third
party gets whatever it is, so
many people also take only third party insurance,
so these are all the things, I have told you
what is OD, what is comprehensive, what is
zero duty,
what is third party, I have told you all these four things, I
hope you have understood everything, if you have
any confusion or want to
know anything else, then you can ask by commenting below,
I will try to tell you in detail, for
now this is all in this video,
thank you very much.